This project can be used to quickly setup Satellite 6.1 or 6.2 install with the backup Satellite data or change the hostname on an existing Satellite

 * [Cloning a Satellite machine](#cloning-a-satellite-machine)
 * [Changing the hostname of a Satellite machine](#changing-the-hostname-of-a-satellite-machine)

## Cloning a Satellite machine:

### Pre-requisites:

- Make sure the machine you are running satellite-clone from can connect to the machine that you executing the playbooks on via paswordless ssh

### Satellite VM requirements:

1. Bring your own vm.
2. Make sure that the vm has adequate space and also make sure that the root partition has all the storage space. You may utilize this script:

    ```console
     # curl -O
     https://gist.githubusercontent.com/sthirugn/cdc34006ae280c344a15a474f7e35918/raw/28c33aa6ccf7ce39cad5692d44702b839023941a/reallocate.sh
     # /bin/bash reallocate.sh
    ```
   Note: The ansible playbook run will fail and not proceed if the free space in root partition is less than the value specified in `required_root_free_space` variable in `roles/sat6repro/vars/main.yml`

### Workstation requirements:
3. Install `ansible` package in your workstation. For RHEL boxes, [access to EPEL] (https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3358) is required.

    ```console
     # yum install -y ansible
    ```
4. git clone this project in your workstation.

    ```console
     # git clone git@github.com:RedHatSatellite/satellite-clone.git
    ```
5. Download the data backup tar files - config, pgsql, mongodb in your workstation under the project folder - satellite-clone/roles/sat6repro/files so Ansible can find them.
6. Update the required sections in `roles/sat6repro/vars/main.yml`.
7. Update the `inventory` file under the root of this project to add your Satellite VM's ip address.
8. Run the ansible playbook:

    ```console
      # ansible-playbook -i inventory deploy-clone-playbook.yml
    ```
**Note:** The playbook run installs the Satellite and may may take a while to complete.

## Sequence of steps performed by this playbook:

1. Turn off firewall.
2. Update hostname of the Satellite VM to the supplied host name.
3. Register/Subscribe the host to Customer portal using the supplied credentials.
4. Disable all repos and enable only the repos that are required for Satellite
   installation.
5. Install vim. (for easy editing of configs in future)
6. Install packages for Satellite 6.1 or 6.2 based on the provided information.
7. Untar the provided Config backup file.
8. Run katello-installer or satellite-installer based on Satellite versions -
   6.1 or 6.2.
9. Untar pgsql, mongo data tar files. Restart required services.
10. Update the Satellite default password for admin to `changeme`.
11. Fix the katello assets link which point to an invalid path.


## Changing the Hostname of a Satellite machine:
1. Before you run the hostname change playbook, you have to make a manual change to the default capsule's hostname. Log into UI and rename the default capsule (under infrastructure->capsules) to the new hostname using both the name and url fields.
2. Update the required sections in `roles/change_hostname/vars/main.yml`.
3. Update the `inventory` file under the root of this project to add your Satellite VM's ip address.
   If executing the playbook on localhost, add `ansible_connection=local` after the IP address
4. Run the ansible playbook:

    ```console
      # ansible-playbook -i inventory deploy-hostname-playbook.yml
    ```
5. If you have a capsule you will need to reregister it with RHSM and then run the following (replacing `<capsule-hostname>` with your capsule's hostname):

   ```console
     # capsule-certs-generate --capsule-fqdn '<capsule-hostname>' --certs-tar '~/<capsule-hostname>-certs.tar'`
   ```

   Then follow the output generated by the capsule-certs-generate command

